README.md, before:

# Material Datepicker #
Javascript datepicker inspired  by Google material design.

> * [Description](#description)
> * [Installation](#installation)
> * [Dependencies](#dependencies)
> * [Usage](#usage)
> * [Constructor](#constructor)
> * [Methods](#methods)
> * [Events](#events)
> * [Screenshots](#screenshots)
> * [Credit](#credit)
> * [License](#license)

### Description ###
Javascript datepicker inspired  by Google material design. Simple and easy to
use the library. Just include the js and css file and use it. I've build this
to use with my current project and here I share the source code. This is build 
on plain javascript. 

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Installation ###
Use bower to install the package or download zip and put it in your project. To use bower use below command :

`bower install -g material-datepicker`

### Dependencies ###
* font-awesome
* roboto-fontface (Optional) - This is only to give the datepicker more material look with the roboto font.

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Usage ###
Include these two css files in your page.

```html
<!-- REQUIRED -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="bower_components/font-awesome/css/font-awesome.css">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="bower_components/material-datepicker/css/material-datepicker.css">

<!-- OPTIONAL -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="bower_components/roboto-fontface/css/roboto-fontface.css">

<!-- REQUIRED -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="bower_components/material-datepicker/js/material-datepicker.js"></script>
```

Now that you already load all the required file, you can start using the datepicker anywhere in your code.

For example :
```javascript
var datepicker = new MaterialDatepicker(); // init
datepicker.show(); // show
// OR
datepicker.hide(); // hide
```

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Constructor ###
To construct simple datepicker, simply use `new MaterialDatepicker()`. But you can also provide option to the datepicker by passing the options to the constructor.

| Option Name | Data Type | Accepted Value       | Default Value | Required | Description                                                                         |
|-------------|-----------|----------------------|---------------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| orientation | string    | landscape,portrait | landscape     | No       | Orientation for the datepicker                                              |
| debugMode   | boolean   | true,false         | false         | No       | Flag either to display the debug line in the console or not                         |
| closeOnBlur | boolean   | true,false         | true          | No       | Flag either to close the datepicker when user click outside the datepicker          |

For example :
```javascript
var options = {
    orientation : 'landscape',
    debugMode : true,
    closeOnBlur : true
};
var datepicker = new MaterialDatepicker(options);
```

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Methods ###
3 basic methods available to be use are as per below.

* `.show(options[Optional])` - This method is used to show the datepicker. This method also accept optional two options which described in the table below :
  
  | Options        | Data Type | Default Value | Required | Description                                                          |
  |----------------|-----------|---------------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
  | onDateSelected | function  | -             | No       | Callback to be trigger when user select the date and click OK button |
  | initialDate    | date      | Current date  | No       | Initial date to be pre-select when the datepicker is visible         |

* `.hide()` - Hide the datepicker. This method does not accept any option.
* `.on(eventName, callback)` - This method is used to bind event to custom callback. Refer [events](#events) for detail.

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Events ###
This datepicker support multiple events based on the table below.

| Event Name       | Description                                                                                                   |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| md.before.show   | Event fire __before__ the dialog is visible.                                                                  |
| md.after.show    | Event fire __after__ the dialog is visible.                                                                   |
| md.before.hide   | Event fire __before__ the dialog is hidden. (Note that this will also be call when cancel button is clicked.) |
| md.after.hide    | Event fire __after__ the dialog is hidden. (Note that this will also be call when cancel button is clicked.)  |
| md.before.cancel | Event fire __before__ the dialog is cancel.                                                                   |
| md.after.cancel  | Event fire __after__ the dialog is cancelled.                                                                 |

To bind a specific event that you require, use below function.

`datepicker.on(eventName, callback);`

For example :
```javascript
datepicker.on("md.before.show", function(e){
    console.log("Before datepicker is shown...");
});

```

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Screenshots ###
![alt tag](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/petalyaa/material-datepicker/master/screenshots/1.png)

![alt tag](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/petalyaa/material-datepicker/master/screenshots/2.png)

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Issues ###
* Not responsive (Now only support desktop view)
* ~~Only landscape datepicker supported. (portrait view still under development)~~

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Credit ###
The source code for this project is 100% by me but the design for the datepicker is copied from another material project because I need it in plain javascript and not with react.js. 

I refer to the datepicker in this project :- [Material-UI](http://www.material-ui.com)

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### License ###
```
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2016 Mohd Khairul Ikhwan bin Kamarudin

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

Commit message:

Add responsive to the options

README.md, after:

# Material Datepicker #
Javascript datepicker inspired  by Google material design.

> * [Description](#description)
> * [Installation](#installation)
> * [Dependencies](#dependencies)
> * [Usage](#usage)
> * [Constructor](#constructor)
> * [Methods](#methods)
> * [Events](#events)
> * [Screenshots](#screenshots)
> * [Credit](#credit)
> * [License](#license)

### Description ###
Javascript datepicker inspired  by Google material design. Simple and easy to
use the library. Just include the js and css file and use it. I've build this
to use with my current project and here I share the source code. This is build 
on plain javascript. 

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Installation ###
Use bower to install the package or download zip and put it in your project. To use bower use below command :

`bower install -g material-datepicker`

### Dependencies ###
* font-awesome
* roboto-fontface (Optional) - This is only to give the datepicker more material look with the roboto font.

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Usage ###
Include these two css files in your page.

```html
<!-- REQUIRED -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="bower_components/font-awesome/css/font-awesome.css">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="bower_components/material-datepicker/css/material-datepicker.css">

<!-- OPTIONAL -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="bower_components/roboto-fontface/css/roboto-fontface.css">

<!-- REQUIRED -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="bower_components/material-datepicker/js/material-datepicker.js"></script>
```

Now that you already load all the required file, you can start using the datepicker anywhere in your code.

For example :
```javascript
var datepicker = new MaterialDatepicker(); // init
datepicker.show(); // show
// OR
datepicker.hide(); // hide
```

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Constructor ###
To construct simple datepicker, simply use `new MaterialDatepicker()`. But you can also provide option to the datepicker by passing the options to the constructor.

| Option Name | Data Type | Accepted Value       | Default Value | Required | Description                                                                         |
|-------------|-----------|----------------------|---------------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| orientation | string    | landscape,portrait | landscape     | No       | Orientation for the datepicker                                              |
| debugMode   | boolean   | true,false         | false         | No       | Flag either to display the debug line in the console or not                         |
| closeOnBlur | boolean   | true,false         | true          | No       | Flag either to close the datepicker when user click outside the datepicker          |
| responsive  | boolean   | true,false         | false         | No       | Flag to enable responsive view for the datepicker.                          |
For example :
```javascript
var options = {
    orientation : 'landscape', // Show in landscape mode when viewing in wider screen
    debugMode : true, // show verbose log to the browser console
    closeOnBlur : true, // close when click outside datepicker
    responsive : true // enable responsive view for the datepicker
};
var datepicker = new MaterialDatepicker(options);
```

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Methods ###
3 basic methods available to be use are as per below.

* `.show(options[Optional])` - This method is used to show the datepicker. This method also accept optional two options which described in the table below :
  
  | Options        | Data Type | Default Value | Required | Description                                                          |
  |----------------|-----------|---------------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
  | onDateSelected | function  | -             | No       | Callback to be trigger when user select the date and click OK button |
  | initialDate    | date      | Current date  | No       | Initial date to be pre-select when the datepicker is visible         |

* `.hide()` - Hide the datepicker. This method does not accept any option.
* `.on(eventName, callback)` - This method is used to bind event to custom callback. Refer [events](#events) for detail.

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Events ###
This datepicker support multiple events based on the table below.

| Event Name       | Description                                                                                                   |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| md.before.show   | Event fire __before__ the dialog is visible.                                                                  |
| md.after.show    | Event fire __after__ the dialog is visible.                                                                   |
| md.before.hide   | Event fire __before__ the dialog is hidden. (Note that this will also be call when cancel button is clicked.) |
| md.after.hide    | Event fire __after__ the dialog is hidden. (Note that this will also be call when cancel button is clicked.)  |
| md.before.cancel | Event fire __before__ the dialog is cancel.                                                                   |
| md.after.cancel  | Event fire __after__ the dialog is cancelled.                                                                 |

To bind a specific event that you require, use below function.

`datepicker.on(eventName, callback);`

For example :
```javascript
datepicker.on("md.before.show", function(e){
    console.log("Before datepicker is shown...");
});

```

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Screenshots ###
![alt tag](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/petalyaa/material-datepicker/master/screenshots/1.png)

![alt tag](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/petalyaa/material-datepicker/master/screenshots/2.png)

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Issues ###
* Not responsive (Now only support desktop view)
* ~~Only landscape datepicker supported. (portrait view still under development)~~

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### Credit ###
The source code for this project is 100% by me but the design for the datepicker is copied from another material project because I need it in plain javascript and not with react.js. 

I refer to the datepicker in this project :- [Material-UI](http://www.material-ui.com)

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)

### License ###
```
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2016 Mohd Khairul Ikhwan bin Kamarudin

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```

[Back to Top](#material-datepicker)
